docs - convertTimezone, datetimeAdd, datetimeSubtract, and datetimeDiff (#26685)
metabase/metabase: docs/questions/query-builder/expressions/datetimediff.md

```
datetimeDiff([Aging Start], now, 'month')
```

## Accepted data types

| [Data type](https://www.metabase.com/learn/databases/data-types-overview#examples-of-data-types) | Works with `datetimeDiff`  |
| ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| String                  | ❌                   |
| Number                  | ❌                   |
| Timestamp               | ✅                   |
| Boolean                 | ❌                   |
| JSON                    | ❌                   |

This table uses `timestamp` and `datetime` interchangeably---just make sure that your dates and times aren't stored as strings or numbers in your database.

## Related functions

This section covers functions and formulas that work the same way as the Metabase `datetimeDiff` expression, with notes on how to choose the best option for your use case.

- [SQL](#sql)
- [Spreadsheets](#spreadsheets)
- [Python](#python)

### SQL

When you run a question using the [query_builder](https://www.metabase.com/glossary/query_builder), Metabase will convert your graphical query settings (filters, summaries, etc.) into a query, and run that query against your database to get your results.

> If our [cheese sample data](#calculating-an-end-date) is stored in a PostgreSQL database:

Reviewer: We should mention the `DATEDIFF` function here.

```sql
SELECT DATE_PART('month', AGE(aging_start, aging_end)) AS age_in_months
FROM cheese
```

is equivalent to the Metabase `datetimeDiff` expression:

```
datetimeDiff([Aging Start], [Aging End], 'month')
```

### Spreadsheets

If our [cheese sample data](#calculating-the-age-of-an-entity) is in a spreadsheet where "Aging Start" is in column B and "Aging End" is in column C:

```

> DATEDIF(A22,B22,"M")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DATEDIFF(A22,B22,"M")
```
?

---
title: DatetimeDiff
---

# DatetimeDiff

`datetimeDiff` gets the amount of time between two datetime values, using the specified unit of time. Note that the difference is calculated in _whole_ units (see the example below).

| Syntax                                                                                                    | Example                                                       |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| `datetimeDiff(datetime1, datetime2, unit)`                                                                | `datetimeDiff("February 1, 2021", "March 15, 2021", "month")` |
| Gets the difference between two datetimes (datetime2 minus datetime 1) using the specified unit of time.  | `1`                                                           |

## Parameters

> Units can be any of: "year", "quarter", "month", "day", "hour", "second", or "millisecond".

Reviewer: Maybe a list here?

- [SQL](#sql)
- [Spreadsheets](#spreadsheets)
- [Python](#python)

### SQL

When you run a question using the [query builder](https://www.metabase.com/glossary/query_builder), Metabase will convert your graphical query settings (filters, summaries, etc.) into a query, and run that query against your database to get your results.

If our [cheese sample data](#calculating-age) is stored in a PostgreSQL database:

```sql
SELECT DATE_PART('month', AGE(aging_end, aging_start)) AS age_in_months
FROM cheese
```

is equivalent to the Metabase `datetimeDiff` expression:

```
datetimeDiff([Aging Start], [Aging End], "month")
```

Some databases, such as Snowflake and BigQuery, support functions like `DATEDIFF` or `DATE_DIFF`. For more info, check out our list of [common SQL reference guides](https://www.metabase.com/learn/debugging-sql/sql-syntax#common-sql-reference-guides).

### Spreadsheets

If our [cheese sample data](#calculating-age) is in a spreadsheet where "Aging Start" is in column B and "Aging End" is in column C:

```
DATEDIF(B1, C1, "M")
```

produces the same result as

```
datetimeDiff([Aging Start], [Aging End], "month")
```

> Yes, it looks a bit wrong, but the spreadsheet function really is `DATEDIF()`, not `DATEDIFF()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, `DATEDIF` looks a bit wrong, but the spreadsheet function really is `DATEDIF()` with one "f", not `DATEDIFF()`.
```
